---
title: Wellness
permalink: /resources/wellness/
published: true
layout: page
has_children: false
parent: Resources
nav_order: 3
---

# Wellness Resources
Your well-being matters, and we hope that this course is never a barrier to taking care of your mental and physical health. Below are some campus resources that may be helpful.

## For academic performance, support, and technology
As the primary academic support service for undergraduates at UC Berkeley, the [Student Learning Center](http://slc.berkeley.edu/) (SLC, 510-642-7332) assists students in transitioning to Cal, navigating the academic terrain, creating networks of resources, and achieving academic, personal, and professional goals. Through various services, including tutoring, study groups, workshops, and courses, SLC supports undergraduate students in the following areas: Biological and Physical Sciences, Business Administration, Computer Science, Economics, Mathematics, Social Sciences, Statistics, Study Strategies, and Writing. While this class is not supported by the Student Learning Center, they may have other academic resources you may find useful.

The [Educational Opportunity Program](http://eop.berkeley.edu/) (EOP, Cesar Chavez Student Center 119; 510-642-7224) at Cal has provided first-generation and low-income college students with the guidance and resources necessary to succeed at the best public university in the world. EOP’s individualized academic counseling, support services, and extensive campus referral network help students develop the unique gifts and talents they each bring to the university, while empowering them to achieve their goals.

Students can access device lending options through the Student Technology Equity Program [STEP](https://studenttech.berkeley.edu/devicelending) program.

## For mental well-being
The staff of the [UHS Counseling and Psychological Services](https://uhs.berkeley.edu/caps) (located at the Tang Center, 2222 Bancroft Way; 510-642-9494; for after-hours support, please call the 24/7 line at 855-817-5667) provides confidential, brief counseling and crisis intervention to students experiencing personal, academic, and career-related stress. Services are provided by a multicultural group of professional counselors, including psychologists, social workers, and advanced-level trainees. All undergraduate and graduate students are eligible for CAPS services, regardless of insurance coverage.

## For disability accommodations
The [Disabled Students’ Program](https://dsp.berkeley.edu/) (DSP, 260 César Chávez Student Center #4250; 510-642-0518) serves students with disabilities of all kinds, including mobility impairments, blind or low vision, deaf or hard of hearing; chronic illnesses (chronic pain, repetitive strain injuries, brain injuries, AIDS/HIV, cancer, etc.) psychological disabilities (bipolar disorder, severe anxiety or depression, etc.), Attention Deficit Disorder/Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, and Learning Disabilities. Services are individually designed and based on the specific needs of each student, as identified by the DSP’s specialists. The Program’s official website includes information on DSP staff, UCB’s disabilities policy, application procedures, campus access guides for most university buildings, and portals for students and faculty.

## For solving a dispute
The [Ombudsperson for Students](https://sa.berkeley.edu/Ombuds) (Sproul Hall 250; 510-642-5754) offers a confidential service for students involved in a University-related issue (academic or administrative), serving as a neutral complaint resolver and not as an advocate for any of the parties involved in a dispute. The Ombudsperson can provide information on policies and procedures affecting students, facilitate students’ contact with services that can assist in resolving problems, and assist students with complaints concerning the improper application of University policies or procedures. All matters referred to this office are held in strict confidence. The only exceptions, at the sole discretion of the Ombudsperson, are cases where there appears to be an imminent threat of serious harm.

The [Student Advocate’s Office](https://advocate.berkeley.edu/) (SAO) is an executive, non-partisan office of the ASUC. We offer free, confidential casework services and resources to any student(s) navigating issues with the University, including academic, conduct, financial aid, and grievance concerns. All support is centered around students and aims for an equity-based approach.

## For recovery from sexual harassment or sexual assault
The [Care Line](https://care.berkeley.edu/care-line/) (510-643-2005) is a 24/7, confidential, free, campus-based resource for urgent support around sexual assault, sexual harassment, interpersonal violence, stalking, and invasion of sexual privacy. The Care Line will connect you with a confidential advocate for trauma-informed crisis support, including time-sensitive information, securing urgent safety resources, and accompaniment to medical care or reporting.

## For social services
[Social Services](http://uhs.berkeley.edu/students/counseling/socialservices.shtml) offers confidential services and counseling to assist students in managing problems that may arise from illness, including financial, academic, legal, and family concerns, among others. They specialize in helping students with pregnancy resources and referrals; alcohol/drug problems related to one’s own or a family member’s use; sexual assault/rape; relationship or other violence; and support for health concerns, new diagnoses or ongoing conditions. Social Services staff will assess a student’s immediate needs, work with the student to develop a plan to meet those needs, and facilitate arrangements with academic departments. They will also advocate for the student with other campus offices and community agencies, as well as coordinate services within UHS.

## For finding community on campus
The mission of the [Berkeley International Office](https://internationaloffice.berkeley.edu/) is to provide support with all the essential resources needed to not only survive, but thrive here at UC Berkeley. Their mission is to support you and work together towards justice and belonging for all. They define Basic Needs as the essential resources that impact your health, belonging, persistence, and overall well-being. It is an ecosystem that includes: nutritious food, stable housing, hygiene, transportation, healthcare, mental wellness, financial sustainability, sleep, and emergency dependent services. They refuse to accept hunger, homelessness, and all other basic needs injustices as part of our university.

The [Gender Equity Resource Center](https://cejce.berkeley.edu/geneq), also known as GenEq, is a UC Berkeley campus community center dedicated to promoting an inclusive Cal experience for all. GenEq is the campus location where students, faculty, staff, and Alumni connect for resources, services, education, and leadership programs related to gender and sexuality. The programs and services of the Gender Equity Resource Center are focused on four key areas: women; lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT); sexual and dating violence; and hate crimes and bias-driven incidents. GenEq strives to provide a space for respectful dialogue about sexuality and gender; illuminate the interrelationship of sexism, homophobia and gender bias and violence; create a campus free of violence and hate; provide leadership opportunities; advocate on behalf of survivors of sexual, hate, dating and gender violence; foster a community of women and LGBT leaders; and be a portal to campus and community resources on LGBT, Women, and the many intersections of identity (e.g., race, class, ability, etc.).

The [Undocumented Students Program](https://undocu.berkeley.edu/) (119 Cesar Chavez Center; 642-7224) practices a holistic, multicultural, and solution-focused approach that delivers individualized service for each student. The academic counseling, legal support, financial aid resources, and extensive campus referral network provided by USP help students develop the unique gifts and talents they each bring to the university while empowering a sense of belonging. The program’s mission is to support the advancement of undocumented students within higher education and promote pathways for engaged scholarship.

The [Multicultural Education Program](http://mep.berkeley.edu/) (MEP) is one of six initiatives funded by the Evelyn and Walter Haas, Jr. Fund to work towards institutional change and to create a positive campus climate for diversity. The MEP is a five-year initiative to establish a sustainable infrastructure for activities such as educational consultations and diversity workshops on campus, addressing both specific topics and catering to group needs across the campus.

## For basic needs (food, shelter, etc.)
The [Basic Needs Center](https://basicneeds.berkeley.edu/home) (lower level of MLK Student Union, Suite 72) provides support with all the essential resources needed to not only survive, but thrive here at UC Berkeley. Their mission is to support you and work together towards justice and belonging for all. They define Basic Needs as the essential resources that impact your health, belonging, persistence, and overall well-being. It is an ecosystem that includes: nutritious food, stable housing, hygiene, transportation, healthcare, mental wellness, financial sustainability, sleep, and emergency dependent services. They refuse to accept hunger, homelessness, and all other basic needs injustices as part of our university.

The [UC Berkeley Food Pantry](https://pantry.berkeley.edu/) (#68 Martin Luther King Student Union) aims to reduce food insecurity among students and staff at UC Berkeley, especially the lack of nutritious food. Students and staff are welcome to visit the pantry as often as needed and take as much as they require, while being mindful that it is a shared resource. The pantry operates on a self-assessed need basis, with no eligibility requirements. The pantry is not for students and staff who need supplemental snacking food, but rather, core food support.

*This page was adapted from the resources page of CS189.*